Project: AKI LOGISTICS FACILITY WAREHOUSE, WORKSHOP AND OFFICE FACILITY 
ON PLOT NO: 531-0565, DIC  
Subject: Operation & Maintenance Manual – Fire Alarm System 
 
 
Edwards Life Safety System  
2
 
loop. The slower communication speed greatly enhances the noise immunity of the system and 
eases the restrictions on the routing of the cable. 
 
The customization of the system programming is done in a personal computer and burnt into a 
FLASH EPROM. This makes the program truly non-volatile. The system makes use of 
proprietary software. The panel has a 168-character LCD display indicating the status of panel 
and the peripherals. The displayed information is sufficient to identify the status changes and to 
locate them. 
 
The initiating device circuit is connected to a transceiver The indicating devices card called 3-
SDDC1 dual loop cards. One such card can support a maximum of 500 addressable devices for 
3-SDDC1 depending on number of devices required to be connected to corresponding loop.  
Each device has a unique address, which will help in identifying the circuit and device number.  
 
Each device is supervised, and the panel will display trouble condition in case of any device 
being removed or dirty or replaced with any other type of device. These relate to a number of 
circuits as shown in the schematic diagram and layout drawings. The Notification devices are 
Sounders/Flashers 
 
 The Initiating devices circuit is supervised and therefore any open or short circuit will be 
displayed as trouble in the panel. 
 
Line powered Interface units are proposed to interface HVAC Equipments, AHU, Fans, Lifts, 
Fire Fighting Equipments - Sprinklers, electric doors at egress path, fire & smoke doors, 
staircase pressurization fans, smoke dampers, gas system, Civil Defence Dialler etc. with Fire 
Alarm system.  
 
All the panels proposed are complete with hardwired network card which can be utilised for a 
Global network between panels. A dedicated and active network together with Graphic 
Command Centre is proposed to provide an active workstation located in the Ground Floor, 
security Room. 
 All the system components are manufactured by EDWARD SYSTEM TECHNOLOGY and 
are UL listed. The system is designed as per the guidelines by NFPA and other international 
standards.