Project: AKI LOGISTICS FACILITY WAREHOUSE, WORKSHOP AND OFFICE FACILITY 
ON PLOT NO: 531-0565, DIC  
Subject: Operation & Maintenance Manual – Fire Alarm System 
 
 
Edwards Life Safety System  
1
 
System Overview 
The Fire Alarm System Proposed for the above Project has the following System 
Configuration: 
 
- One Intelligent Main EST3 Integrated Fire Detection System and Graphical 
workstation located at Ground Floor of Operation Facility. 
- One Intelligent EST3 Repeater Panel located at Guard House-01. 
- One Intelligent EST3 Repeater Panel located at Guard House-02. 
- Initiating Devices - Signature Series Detectors and Modules 
- Notification Appliances Devices – Sounders & Strobes.  
 
EST3 is the latest technology panel from Edwards and has numerous functions and facilities 
built-in. Signature series devices are intelligent microprocessor detectors, which use the latest 
technology of fire detection. 
 
The EST3 panel is a microprocessor-based system and provides all the features and functions of 
EST3 series. Main panel is provided with a 168-character LCD display, which is the largest size 
in the industry. This display enables a user-friendly operator interface with complete and clear 
messages. It also provides a detailed summary of events, alarms, reports, history etc. A keypad is 
provided along with a display to enable the menu driven operation of the system. The menu 
guides the operator through various functions provided by the system and enables a control of 
various points and history / status reports.  
 
The EST3 and Signature Series provide the combined advantage of fastest response time 
coupled with the highest reliability in the industry. The EST3 panel is the most advanced fire 
alarm system in the world. The panel is designed as per the customer needs to suit the specific 
applications and provides many important features to support a large network. The analogue 
addressable loop cards have their own microprocessors and communicate to intelligent analogue 
devices on a 2-wire communication loop. Each panel has a high efficiency switched mode power 
supply cum battery charger.  
 
A dedicated microprocessor-based module monitors the power supply and the batteries. In case 
the incoming AC supply voltage drops below a certain minimum voltage, the panel is 
automatically switched to a battery. The panel does not draw current from the batteries after the 
batteries are drained to a certain minimum extent to save a permanent damage to the batteries.  
 
The Signature series devices are microprocessor based intelligent and capable of working 
standalone. Each detector has its own microprocessor and non-volatile memory, which stores a 
history of information about the detector’s operation. The detector has an in-built complex 
algorithm, which works along with time to give the reliable and fastest alarm. However, the 
fastest communication speed is not coupled with the communication rate between the detectors 
and the panel. The system uses the slowest communication speed to provide the fastest response 
time. This is made possible by the intelligent detectors, which send a much less traffic on the